Israeli ground troops have carried out
what they are calling localized raids
inside the Gaza Strip over the past 24
hours Israel's Chief military
spokesperson said infantry and tank
units entered Gaza to locate rocket
Crews to destroy weapons and to search
for evidence of hostages the
announcement did not appear to be the
beginning of an expected ground
offensive in retaliation for the terror
attacks by Hamas militants last Saturday
Israel has been massing troops along the
Gaza Border in preparation for that
offensive the Israeli military has given
more than 1 million people in Gaza just
24 hours to evacuate their homes the
terrorist organization Hamas controls
Gaza it told residents today to ignore
the warning but many gazans have decided
that it's time to
go dawn breaks in Gaza to a wave of
aerial bombardment
a barrage of explosions destroying
buildings in the
region and today the attacks came along
with an official
warning as the Israeli military
continued amassing tanks and troops near
the gazen border ahead of an expected
ground Invasion it called for the sum
1.1 million people located in Gaza City
to relocate to the South within 24 hours
this involves a journey across the Wadi
Gaza Wetlands the river dividing the
territories north and
south and so the Exodus begins gazen
civilians and un staff alike started
moving as best they could out of Harm's
Way today we do not know where to go
there is no safe place we do not know
where our children are and we do not
know what to do we have no food or water
I'm appealing to the United uned nations
in front of the UN building where do we
go where do we
go the UN said moving so many people in
such a short period of time within one
of the world's most densely packed areas
would be impossible quote without
devastating humanitarian
consequences but the clock ticks on the
World Health Organization called for
humanitarian access to Gaza to be
resumed it warns that Israel's total
blockade and continual bombardment
pushed the health system to Breaking
Point lacking essential supplies and
electricity and we need a corridor to
provide medical services and and so on
that's what I would I would ask ask for
one is to protect civilians and second
to provide them with the support uh they
need be food Medical Services
supplies Israel continues to insist that
it is doing everything it can to
minimize civilian suffering but for the
people of Gaza time is running out as
well as safe places to
go all right we want to get some
analysis now with military expert Marina
Maron she's from King's College London
Marina it's good to see you on this
Friday do you see these localized raids
as Israel's military are calling them do
you see this as a a possible first step
of a ground
invasion
good evening Brent um first of all yes
these localized raids can be considered
as so-called shaping operations in other
words um these raids should be preparing
the ground offensive and should increase
the success of the ground offensive and
of course we have the hostage situation
which makes um a military operation in
Gaza much more difficult so the idea is
to locate and to um try release the
hostages as well as destroy hamas's
equipment and possibly weaken the hold
of Hamas in that region and we're
talking about um specifically about the
massing of troops on the northern part
of Gaza so we assume that the military
operation if it is to start will be
starting from the north there is no
question that Israel's military is far
superior both in numbers and Equipment
compared to anything that Hamas is
working with but is that really a factor
we're talking about being in one of the
most densely populated places on the
planet and we're talking about Urban
Warfare well it's a good question
because as we have seen recently in
Afghanistan military um superiority in
terms of numbers and superiority in
terms of Technology military technology
doesn't necessarily guarantee success
and this is what we have seen throughout
military history where rag tag militias
um came to be more successful than
organized State forces so this will be
very difficult for the IDF um
specifically because such operations
which used to be called C Insurgency
operations require not only military
skill you're operating um in densely
populated urban areas so you have to be
very discriminate when it comes to using
your force in order not to shoot
civilians and and so that the the
operation itself will be very slow very
painful costing a lot of lives and it
might look like going block by block
street by street so in in those terms
what Israel needs to ensure is that it
doesn't alienate the Palestinian
population while conducting this
operation there have been reports too of
rockets being fired from Lebanon and
Syria um towards Israel also from Israel
towards Lebanon and
Syria what does this tell you about the
possibility of this conflict turning
into a two-front or multi-front
War there is definitely a risk that this
might indeed turn into a multi-front war
which wouldn't look good for Israel
because Hezbollah has declared that it
is ready to join the fight and the
problem with such um organizations is
that they are they don't have a unity of
command this means that even if the
official statement is would have been
not to join or the official intent would
have been to stay away there's still
might be a cell that that makes an
incursion into Israel escalating so
there is also a potential for a
miscalculation which could uh create a
bigger war and open another front in the
north all right Marina Maron we
appreciate your analysis on this Friday
evening thank you
thank you very much for having
me now let's go straight to our
correspondent Rebecca R is in Tel Aviv
Rebecca what more can you tell us about
these so-called localized
raids well that is what we've been
hearing the Israeli military saying that
they have been carrying out these very
small very targeted very elite teams
have been going in and carrying out uh
these raids as you said in the lead in
there to try particularly I think to
look for uh some of the more than 100
hostages we know are being held in Gaza
uh this is the first shift really
towards a ground Invasion though as you
also mentioned not an indicative of the
beginning of such a ground Invasion
though that is something that is largely
expected to happen in the coming days if
not week we've been seeing uh I was down
there this week myself been seeing very
very uh heavy Armament and and a huge
troop movement around that Gaza border
and it is thought by everyone though
we've had no confirmation from the
Israeli military but it is thought that
a ground Invasion would be the next step
so it isn't surprising that this interim
step is a way that they can enter try
and look for these hostages and and do
other targeted acts in there without
triggering the full ground Invasion at
this
stage thew correspondent Rebecca R is
there in t thank you very much
Rebecca